docs/3.2_SWERVE_SIM_HARDWARE_ABSTRACTION.md, before:

# Swerve Simulation: Hardware Abstractions

> ⚠️ **Note**
> 
> You are reading the documentation for a Beta version of maple-sim. API references are subject to change in future versions.

## Overview

## 0. Hardware Abstraction

> 💡 **To those using AKit**
> 
> If you're using AdvantageKit, your code is already hardware-abstracted. You do not need to restructure your code to use maple-sim.

### General idea
The core idea is that the code for your subsystem interacts with an IO interface that can have multiple implementations.

The code runs EXACTLY the same regardless of which IO interface it interacts with, whether on a real robot or in a physics engine.

<img src="media%2Fhardware%20abstraction.svg" width="100%">

Optionally, you can use the [log-replay technology](https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit/blob/main/docs/docs/what-is-advantagekit/index.md) with [AdvantageKit](https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit).

### Implementing
To implement hardware abstraction, you need to organize the code for EACH subsystem according to this structure:

```
subsystems/
├── MySubsystem/
│   ├── MySubsystem.java
│   ├── MySubsystemIO.java
│   ├── MySubsystemIOTalonFX.java
│   ├── MySubsystemIOSparkMax.java
│   └── MySubsystemIOSim.java
```

- `MySubsystem.java`:  The main code that controls the subsystem.
- `MySubsystemIO.java`: Defines the IO interface, specifying the abstract inputs and outputs of the subsystem.
- `MySubsystemIOTalonFX.java`: A hardware implementation of the IO interface using Falcon motors.
- `MySubsystemIOSparkMax.java`: A hardware implementation of the IO interface using Neo motors.
- `MySubsystemIOSim.java`: he simulation implementation of the IO interface, which runs the physics simulation.

Reference: [io-interface.md from Advantage Kit Documents](https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit/blob/main/docs/docs/recording-inputs/io-interfaces.md)



## 1. Interacting with the Gyro
The simulated gyro includes measurement errors and will drift if the robot collides with an obstacle. For accurate odometry simulation, use the simulated gyro to update the odometry.

Create `GyroIOSim.java`, which implements `GyroIO` by wrapping around the methods of `GyroSimulation`:

### IO interface
```java
// Example gyro interface
public interface GyroIO {
    Rotation2d getGyroRotation();
    AngularVelocity getGyroAngularVelocity();
}
```

### Real Implementation

```java
// real implementation with Pigeon2
public class GyroIOPigeon2 implements GyroIO {
    private final Pigeon2 pigeon2;
    public GyroIOPigeon2(...) {
        // Implementation details
    }
    
    @Override // specified by GroIOSim interface
    public Rotation2d getGyroRotation() {
        return pigeon2.getYaw();
    }
    
    @Override // specified by GroIOSim interface
    public AngularVelocity getGyroAngularVelocity() {
        return pigeon2.getAngularVelocity();
    }
}
```

### Simulation Implementation

```java
// Simulation implementation
public class GyroIOSim implements GyroIO {
    private final GyroSimulation gyroSimulation;
    public GyroIOSim(GyroSimulation gyroSimulation) {
        this.gyroSimulation = gyroSimulation;
    }
    
    @Override // specified by GroIOSim interface
    public Rotation2d getGyroRotation() {
        return this.gyroSimulation.getGyroReading();
    }
    
    @Override // specified by GroIOSim interface
    public double getGyroAngularVelocity() {
        return this.gyroSimulation.getMeasuredAngularVelocityRadPerSec();
    }
}
```

If you're using AdvantageKit, you'll want to update the `GyroInputs` by retrieving data from the `GyroSimulation`.

An example of implementing the Gyro interface in an AdvantageKit environment can be found [here](https://github.com/Shenzhen-Robotics-Alliance/maple-sim/blob/main/templates/AdvantageKit_AdvancedSwerveDriveProject/src/main/java/frc/robot/subsystems/drive/GyroIOSim.java).

## 2. Interacting with the Simulated Modules

Similar to the gyro, you also need to create hardware abstractions for the swerve modules.

To implement `ModuleIO` using the simulator, use the following API references in `ModuleIOSim`:

```java
// This is only an example simulation IO implement, please change the code according to your ModuleIO interface
public class ModuleIOSim implements ModuleIO {
    private final SwerveModuleSimulation moduleSimulation;
    public ModuleIOSim(SwerveModuleSimulation moduleSimulation) {
        this.moduleSimulation = moduleSimulation;

        // configures the drive motor gains
        this.moduleSimulation.getDriveMotorConfigs()
            // configures a default feed-forward gains for the drive motor, with 0.1 volts of friction compensation
            .withDefaultFeedForward(Volts.of(0.1))
            // configures a velocity-voltage close loop controller
            .withVelocityVoltageController(
                // P gain is 12 volts / 3000 RPM (change it for your code)
                // Meaning that: the correction voltage is 12 volts when error is 3000RPM
                Volts.per(RPM).ofNative(12.0/3000.0), 
                // true means the P gain is specified in un-geared motor speed
                true
            );
        
        // configures the steer motor gains
        this.moduleSimulation.getSteerMotorConfigs()
            // configures a position-current close loop controller
            .withPositionCurrentController(
                // P gain is 12 amps / 60 degrees
                // Meaning that: the correction current is 20 amps when the steer position error is 60 degrees
                Amps.per(Degrees).ofNative(10.0/60.0), 
                // D gain is zero
                Amps.per(DegreesPerSecond).ofNative(0),
                // false means the P and D gain are specifed in final mechanism position/velocity
                false
            );
    }
    
    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public void setDriveOutputVoltage(Voltage voltage) {
        this.moduleSimulation.requestDriveControl(new ControlRequest.VoltageOut(voltage));
    }

    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public void setSteerOutputVoltage(Voltage voltage) {
        this.moduleSimulation.requestSteerControl(new ControlRequest.VoltageOut(voltage));
    }

    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public void requestDriveVelocity(LinearVelocity driveVelocitySetpoint) {
        // calculates the amount of wheel speed needed to achive the linear speed
        final AngularVelocity wheelVelocitySetpoint = RadiansPerSecond.of(
            driveVelocitySetpoint.in(MetersPerSecond) / moduleSimulation.WHEEL_RADIUS.in(Meters)
        );

        // request the drive motor controller to run a closed-loop on velocity
        moduleSimulation.requestDriveControl(
            new ControlRequest.VelocityVoltage(wheelVelocitySetpoint)
        );
    }

    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public void requestSteerPosition(Rotation2d steerFacingSetpoint) {
        // request the steer motor controller to run a close
        moduleSimulation.requestSteerControl(
            new ControlRequest.PositionCurrent(steerFacingSetpoint.getMeasure())
        );
    }
    
    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public Rotation2d getSteerFacing() {
        return this.moduleSimulation.getSteerAbsoluteFacing();
    }
    
    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public Angle getSteerRelativePosition() {
        return moduleSimulation.getSteerRelativeEncoderPosition().divide(moduleSimulation.STEER_GEAR_RATIO));
    }
    
    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public Angle getDriveWheelrPositiond() {
        return moduleSimulation.getDrieWheelFinalPosition()
    }
}
```

An example of interacting with module simulations and simulating high-frequency odometry can be found [here](https://github.com/Shenzhen-Robotics-Alliance/maple-sim/blob/main/templates/AdvantageKit_AdvancedSwerveDriveProject/src/main/java/frc/robot/subsystems/drive/ModuleIOSim.java).

## 3. Instantiating Simulation IO Implementations

When running the simulator, you can instantiate the above simulation IO implementations to allow the robot to run within the simulation environment.

```java
// creation the swerve simulation (please refer to previous documents)
this.swerveDriveSimulation = new SwerveDriveSimulation(...);

// 

this.drive = new Drive(
        new GyroIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getGyroSimulation()),
        new ModuleIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getModules()[0]),
        new ModuleIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getModules()[1]),
        new ModuleIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getModules()[2]),
        new ModuleIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getModules()[3])
);
```


<div style="display:flex">
    <h3 style="width:49%"><< Back to: <a href="https://shenzhen-robotics-alliance.github.io/maple-sim/3.0_SWERVE_SIMULATION_OVERVIEW.html">Swerve Simulation Overview</a></h3>
    <h3 style="width:49%" align="right">Next: <a href="https://shenzhen-robotics-alliance.github.io/maple-sim/4_SIMULATING_INTAKE.html">Simulating Intaike</a> >></h3>
</div>

Commit message:

added documents for simplified swerve sim and base falcon swerve as example
unfinished...

docs/3.2_SWERVE_SIM_HARDWARE_ABSTRACTION.md, after:

# Swerve Simulation: Hardware Abstractions

This approach to simulating swerve drive accurately mimics the behavior of your drivetrain code by running the exact same code used on the real robot directly on the simulated robot. While this ensures high fidelity in the simulation, it does require a significant amount of effort to set up properly.

#### For a more comprehensive understanding of how this works, please check out the [AdvancedSwerveDrive-maple-sim example](https://github.com/Shenzhen-Robotics-Alliance/maple-sim/blob/main/templates/AdvantageKit_AdvancedSwerveDriveProject/).

> ⚠️ **Note**
> 
> You are reading the documentation for a Beta version of maple-sim. API references are subject to change in future versions.

## 0. IO Abstraction

> 💡 **Tip**
> 
> If you're using AdvantageKit, your code is already IO-abstracted. You do not need to restructure your code to use maple-sim.

The core idea is that the code for your subsystem interacts with an IO interface that can have multiple implementations.

The code runs EXACTLY the same regardless of which IO interface it interacts with, whether on a real robot or in a physics engine.

<img src="media%2Fhardware%20abstraction.svg" width="100%">

Optionally, you can use the [log-replay technology](https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit/blob/main/docs/docs/what-is-advantagekit/index.md) with [AdvantageKit](https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit).

To implement IO abstraction, you need to organize the code for EACH subsystem according to this structure:

```
subsystems/
├── MySubsystem/
│   ├── MySubsystem.java
│   ├── MySubsystemIO.java
│   ├── MySubsystemIOTalonFX.java
│   ├── MySubsystemIOSparkMax.java
│   └── MySubsystemIOSim.java
```

- `MySubsystem.java`:  The main code that controls the subsystem.
- `MySubsystemIO.java`: Defines the IO interface, specifying the abstract inputs and outputs of the subsystem.
- `MySubsystemIOTalonFX.java`: A hardware implementation of the IO interface using Falcon motors.
- `MySubsystemIOSparkMax.java`: A hardware implementation of the IO interface using Neo motors.
- `MySubsystemIOSim.java`: he simulation implementation of the IO interface, which runs the physics simulation.

Reference: [io-interface.md from Advantage Kit Documents](https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit/blob/main/docs/docs/recording-inputs/io-interfaces.md)



## 1. Interacting with the Gyro through IO abstraction
The simulated gyro includes measurement errors and will drift if the robot collides with an obstacle. For accurate odometry simulation, use the simulated gyro to update the odometry.

Create `GyroIOSim.java`, which implements `GyroIO` by wrapping around the methods of `GyroSimulation`:

### IO interface
```java
// Example gyro interface
public interface GyroIO {
    Rotation2d getGyroRotation();
    AngularVelocity getGyroAngularVelocity();
}
```

### Real Implementation

```java
// real implementation with Pigeon2
public class GyroIOPigeon2 implements GyroIO {
    private final Pigeon2 pigeon2;
    public GyroIOPigeon2(...) {
        // Implementation details
    }
    
    @Override // specified by GroIOSim interface
    public Rotation2d getGyroRotation() {
        return pigeon2.getYaw();
    }
    
    @Override // specified by GroIOSim interface
    public AngularVelocity getGyroAngularVelocity() {
        return pigeon2.getAngularVelocity();
    }
}
```

### Simulation Implementation

```java
// Simulation implementation
public class GyroIOSim implements GyroIO {
    private final GyroSimulation gyroSimulation;
    public GyroIOSim(GyroSimulation gyroSimulation) {
        this.gyroSimulation = gyroSimulation;
    }
    
    @Override // specified by GroIOSim interface
    public Rotation2d getGyroRotation() {
        return this.gyroSimulation.getGyroReading();
    }
    
    @Override // specified by GroIOSim interface
    public double getGyroAngularVelocity() {
        return this.gyroSimulation.getMeasuredAngularVelocityRadPerSec();
    }
}
```

If you're using AdvantageKit, you'll want to update the `GyroInputs` by retrieving data from the `GyroSimulation`.

An example of implementing the Gyro interface in an AdvantageKit environment can be found [here](https://github.com/Shenzhen-Robotics-Alliance/maple-sim/blob/main/templates/AdvantageKit_AdvancedSwerveDriveProject/src/main/java/frc/robot/subsystems/drive/GyroIOSim.java).

## 2. Interacting with the Simulated Modules through IO abtraction

Similar to the gyro, you also need to create hardware abstractions for the swerve modules.

To implement `ModuleIO` using the simulator, use the following API references in `ModuleIOSim`:

```java
// This is only an example simulation IO implement, please change the code according to your ModuleIO interface
public class ModuleIOSim implements ModuleIO {
    private final SwerveModuleSimulation moduleSimulation;
    public ModuleIOSim(SwerveModuleSimulation moduleSimulation) {
        this.moduleSimulation = moduleSimulation;

        // configures the drive motor gains
        this.moduleSimulation.getDriveMotorConfigs()
            // configures a default feed-forward gains for the drive motor, with 0.1 volts of friction compensation
            .withDefaultFeedForward(Volts.of(0.1))
            // configures a velocity-voltage close loop controller
            .withVelocityVoltageController(
                // P gain is 12 volts / 3000 RPM (change it for your code)
                // Meaning that: the correction voltage is 12 volts when error is 3000RPM
                Volts.per(RPM).ofNative(12.0/3000.0), 
                // true means the P gain is specified in un-geared motor speed
                true
            );
        
        // configures the steer motor gains
        this.moduleSimulation.getSteerMotorConfigs()
            // configures a position-current close loop controller
            .withPositionCurrentController(
                // P gain is 12 amps / 60 degrees
                // Meaning that: the correction current is 20 amps when the steer position error is 60 degrees
                Amps.per(Degrees).ofNative(10.0/60.0), 
                // D gain is zero
                Amps.per(DegreesPerSecond).ofNative(0),
                // false means the P and D gain are specifed in final mechanism position/velocity
                false
            );
    }
    
    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public void setDriveOutputVoltage(Voltage voltage) {
        this.moduleSimulation.requestDriveControl(new ControlRequest.VoltageOut(voltage));
    }

    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public void setSteerOutputVoltage(Voltage voltage) {
        this.moduleSimulation.requestSteerControl(new ControlRequest.VoltageOut(voltage));
    }

    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public void requestDriveVelocity(LinearVelocity driveVelocitySetpoint) {
        // calculates the amount of wheel speed needed to achive the linear speed
        final AngularVelocity wheelVelocitySetpoint = RadiansPerSecond.of(
            driveVelocitySetpoint.in(MetersPerSecond) / moduleSimulation.WHEEL_RADIUS.in(Meters)
        );

        // request the drive motor controller to run a closed-loop on velocity
        moduleSimulation.requestDriveControl(
            new ControlRequest.VelocityVoltage(wheelVelocitySetpoint)
        );
    }

    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public void requestSteerPosition(Rotation2d steerFacingSetpoint) {
        // request the steer motor controller to run a close
        moduleSimulation.requestSteerControl(
            new ControlRequest.PositionCurrent(steerFacingSetpoint.getMeasure())
        );
    }
    
    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public Rotation2d getSteerFacing() {
        return this.moduleSimulation.getSteerAbsoluteFacing();
    }
    
    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public Angle getSteerRelativePosition() {
        return moduleSimulation.getSteerRelativeEncoderPosition().divide(moduleSimulation.STEER_GEAR_RATIO));
    }
    
    @Override // specified by ModuleIO interface
    public Angle getDriveWheelrPositiond() {
        return moduleSimulation.getDrieWheelFinalPosition()
    }
}
```

## 3. Instantiating Simulation IO Implementations

When running the simulator, you can instantiate the above simulation IO implementations to allow the robot to run within the simulation environment.

```java
// creation the swerve simulation (please refer to previous documents)
this.swerveDriveSimulation = new SwerveDriveSimulation(...);

// 

this.drive = new Drive(
        new GyroIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getGyroSimulation()),
        new ModuleIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getModules()[0]),
        new ModuleIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getModules()[1]),
        new ModuleIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getModules()[2]),
        new ModuleIOSim(this.swerveDriveSimulation.getModules()[3])
);
```


<div style="display:flex">
    <h3 style="width:49%"><< Back to: <a href="https://shenzhen-robotics-alliance.github.io/maple-sim/3.0_SWERVE_SIMULATION_OVERVIEW.html">Swerve Simulation Overview</a></h3>
    <h3 style="width:49%" align="right">Next: <a href="https://shenzhen-robotics-alliance.github.io/maple-sim/4_SIMULATING_INTAKE.html">Simulating Intaike</a> >></h3>
</div>
